# 1996-03

## Para .1

In the last half of the nineteenth century "*capital[^1]*" and "*labour[^2]*" were enlarging and perfecting their *rival[^3]* organizations on modern lines. Many an old *firm[^4]* was replaced by a limited *liability[^5]* company with a *bureaucracy[^5]* of *salaried[^6]* managers. The change met the technical requirements of the new age by *engaging[^7]* a large professional element and *prevented[^8]* the *decline[^9]* in efficiency that so commonly *spoiled[^10]* the *fortunes[^11]* of family firms in the second and third generation after the *energetic[^12]* founders. It was moreover a step away from individual[^13] initiative[^14], towards *collectivism[^15]* and *municipal[^16]* and *state-owned business[^17]*. The railway companies, though still private business managed for the benefit of *shareholders[^18]*, were very unlike old family business. At the same time the great *municipalities[^19]* *went into business[^20]* to supply lighting, *trams[^21]* and other services to the taxpayers.
[^1]:**Capital** [kæpɪtəl] is a large sum of money which you use to start a business, or which you invest in order to make more money. 资本
[^2]:**Labour** [leɪbəʳ] is used to refer to the workers of a country or industry, considered as a group. 劳工
[^3]:Your **rival** [raɪvəl] is a person, business, or organization who you are competing or fighting against in the same area or for the same things. 竞争
[^4]:A **firm** [fɜːʳm] is an organization which sells or produces something or which provides a service which people pay for. 公司
[^5]:A **bureaucracy** [bjʊrɒkrəsi] is an administrative system operated by a large number of officials. 官僚机构
[^6]:**Salaried** [sælərid] people receive a salary from their job. 受薪的
[^7]:If you **engage** [ɪngeɪdʒ] someone to do a particular job, you appoint them to do it. 聘用，引申为吸收
[^8]:To **prevent** [prɪvent] something means to ensure that it does not happen. 防止
[^9]:If something **declines** [dɪklaɪn], it becomes less in quantity, importance, or strength. 减少，下降
[^10]:If you **spoil** [spɔɪl] something, you prevent it from being successful or satisfactory. 破坏
[^11]:You can refer to a large sum of money as a **fortune** [fɔːʳtʃuːn] or a small fortune to emphasize how large it is. 财富
[^12]:An **energetic** [enəʳdʒetɪk] person is very active and does not feel at all tired. 精力充沛的
[^13]:**Individual** [ɪndɪvɪdʒuəl] means relating to one person or thing, rather than to a large group. 个人的
[^14]:If you have **initiative** [ɪnɪʃətɪv], you have the ability to decide what to do next and to do it, without needing other people to tell you what to do. 主动性
[^15]:**Collectivism** [kəlektɪvɪzəm] is the political belief that a country's industries and services should be owned and controlled by the state or by all the people in a country. Socialism and communism are both forms of collectivism. 集体主义
[^16]:**Municipal** [mjuːnɪsɪpəl] means associated with or belonging to a city or town that has its own local government. 市政
[^17]:**state-owned** [ˌsteɪtˈəʊnd] **business** 国有企业
[^18]:A **shareholder** [ʃeəʳhoʊldəʳ] is a person who owns shares in a company. 股东
[^19]:In Britain, a **municipality** [mjuːnɪsɪpælɪti] is a city or town which is governed by its own locally-appointed officials. You can also refer to a city's or town's local government as a municipality. 自治市（大城市）
[^20]:**go into business** 创业，开始做某件事
[^21]:A **tram** [træm] is a public transport vehicle, usually powered by electricity from wires above it, which travels along rails laid in the surface of a street. 电车

## Para. 2

The growth of the limited liability company and municipal business had important *consequences[^22]*. Such large, impersonal *manipulation[^23]* of capital and industry greatly increased the numbers and importance of shareholders as a class, an element in national life representing *irresponsible[^24]* wealth *detached[^25]* from the land and the duties of the landowners; and almost equally detached from the responsible management of business. All through the nineteenth century, America, Africa, India, Australia and parts of Europe were being developed by British capital, and British shareholders were thus enriched by the world's movement towards industrialization. Towns like *Bournemouth[^26]* and *Eastbourne[^27]* sprang up to *house[^28]* large "comfortable" classes who had retired on their incomes, and who had no relation to the rest of the community except that of *drawing[^29]* *dividends[^30]* and *occasionally[^31]* attending a shareholders' meeting to *dictate[^32]* their orders to the management. On the other hand "shareholding" meant *leisure[^33]* and freedom which was used by many of the later *Victorians[^34]* for the highest purpose of a great civilization.
[^22]:The **consequences** [kɒnsɪkwens] of something are the results or effects of it. 影响
[^23]:**Manipulation** [məˌnɪpjuˈleɪʃən] a manipulating or being manipulated; skillful handling or operation, artful management or control, etc. 操纵，操作
[^24]:If you describe someone as **irresponsible** [ɪrɪspɒnsɪbəl], you are criticizing them because they do things without properly considering their possible consequences. 不负责任的
[^25]:If you **detach** [dɪtætʃ] one thing from another that it is fixed to, you remove it. 分离，移除
[^26]:**Bournemouth** 伯恩茅斯，英格兰南部城市
[^27]:**Eastbourne** 伊斯特本，英格兰东南部城市
[^28]:To **house** [haʊs] someone means to provide a house or flat for them to live in. 容纳
[^29]:If you **draw** [drɔː] money out of a bank, building society, or savings account, you get it from the account so that you can use it. 提取（钱）
[^30]:**Dividends** [dɪvɪdɛndz] are the part of a company's profits that is paid out to the shareholders. 分红
[^31]:**Occasionally** [əˈkeɪʒənəlɪ]: from time to time 偶尔，间或
[^32]:If someone **dictates** [dɪkteɪt] to someone else, they tell them what they should do or can do. 发号施令
[^33]:**Leisure** [leʒəʳ] is the time when you are not working and you can relax and do things that you enjoy. 舒适
[^34]:**Victorian** [vɪktɔːriən] means belonging to, connected with, or typical of Britain in the middle and last parts of the 19th century, when Victoria was Queen. 维多利亚时代的（人）

## Para. 3

The "shareholders" as such had no knowledge of lives, thoughts or needs of the workmen employment by the company in which he held shares, and his influence on the relations of capital and labour was not good. The paid manager acting for the company was in more direct relation with the men and their *demands[^35]*, but even he had seldom that *familiar[^36]* personal knowledge of the workmen which the employer had often had *under[^37]* the more *patriarchal[^38]* system of the old family business now passing away. *Indeed[^39]* the mere size of *operations[^40]* and the numbers of workmen *involved[^41]* *rendered[^42]* such personal relations impossible. Fortunately, however, the increasing power and organization of the *trade unions[^43]*, at least in all *skilled[^44]* *trades[^45]*, enabled the workmen to meet on equal terms the managers of the companies who employed them. The cruel[^46] discipline[^47] of the strike[^48] and lockout[^49] taught the two parties to respect each other's strength and understand the value of fair negotiation[^50].

[^35]: A **demand** [dɪmɑːnd] is a firm request for something. 要求
[^36]:If someone or something is **familiar** [fəmɪliəʳ] to you, you recognize them or know them well. 熟悉
[^37]:**under**: understand的缩写
[^38]:A **patriarchal** [peɪtriɑːʳkəl] society, family, or system is one in which the men have all or most of the power and importance. 重男轻女的、父权的
[^39]:You use **indeed** [ɪndiːd] to introduce a further comment or statement which strengthens the point you have already made. 的确，确实
[^40]:A business or company can be referred to as an **operation** [ɒpəreɪʃən]. 企业，生意
[^41]:If you are **involved** [ɪnvɒlvd] in a situation or activity, you are taking part in it or have a strong connection with it. 涉及
[^42]:You can use **render** [rendəʳ] with an adjective that describes a particular state to say that someone or something is changed into that state. 使成为
[^43]:A **trade union** [treɪd juːnjən] is an organization that has been formed by workers in order to represent their rights and interests to their employers, for example in order to improve working conditions or wages. 工会
[^44]:Someone who is **skilled** [skɪld] has the knowledge and ability to do something well. 有技术/有技能的
[^45]:Someone's **trade** [treɪd] is the kind of work that they do, especially when they have been trained to do it over a period of time. 行业
[^46]:Someone who is **cruel** [kruːəl] deliberately causes pain or distress to people or animals. 残酷的
[^47]:**Discipline** [dɪsɪplɪn] is the practice of making people obey rules or standards of behaviour, and punishing them when they do not. 纪律
[^48]:When there is a **strike** [straɪk], workers stop doing their work for a period of time, usually in order to try to get better pay or conditions for themselves. 罢工
[^49]:A **lockout** is a situation in which employers close a place of work and prevent workers from entering it until the workers accept the employer's new proposals on pay or conditions of work. 停工
[^50]:**Negotiations** [nɪgoʊʃieɪʃən] are formal discussions between people who have different aims or intentions, especially in business or politics, during which they try to reach an agreement. 谈判