# 02.1997-05

## Para. 1

Much of the language used to describe *monetary[^1]* policy, such as "*steering[^2]* the economy to a soft landing" or "a touch on the *brakes[^3]*", makes it sound like a *precise [^4]*science. Nothing could be further from the truth. The link between interest rates and *inflation[^5]* is uncertain. And there are long, variable *lags[^6]* before policy changes have any effect on the economy. *Hence[^7]* the *analogy[^8]* that *likens[^9]* the conduct of monetary policy to driving a car with a blackened windscreen, a cracked *rear-view mirror[^10]* and a *faulty[^11]* *steering wheel[^12]*.

[^1]:**Monetary** [mʌnɪtri] means relating to money, especially the total amount of money in a country. 货币
[^2]:When you **steer** [stɪəʳ] a car, boat, or plane, you control it so that it goes in the direction that you want. 操控（机器）
[^3]:**Brakes** [breɪk] are devices in a vehicle that make it go slower or stop. 刹车
[^4]:You use **precise** [prɪsaɪs] to emphasize that you are referring to an exact thing, rather than something vague. 精确
[^5]:**Inflation** [ɪnfleɪʃən] is a general increase in the prices of goods and services in a country. 通货膨胀率
[^6]:A time **lag** [læg] or a lag of a particular length of time is a period of time between one event and another related event. 滞后
[^7]:You use **hence** [hens] to indicate that the statement you are about to make is a consequence of what you have just said. 因此
[^8]:If you make or draw an **analogy** [ənælədʒi] between two things, you show that they are similar in some way. 比喻（名词）
[^9]:If you **liken** [laɪkən] one thing or person to another thing or person, you say that they are similar. 比喻（动词）
[^10]:Inside a car, the **rear-view mirror** is the mirror that enables you to see the traffic behind when you are driving. 后视镜
[^11]:A **faulty** [fɔːlti] piece of equipment has something wrong with it and is not working properly. 错误的、故障
[^12]:In a car or other vehicle, the **steering wheel** is the wheel which the driver holds when he or she is driving. 方向盘
## Para. 2

Given all these disadvantages, central bankers seem to have had much to *boast[^13]* about of *late[^14]*. Average inflation in the big seven industrial economies fell to a *mere[^15]* 2.3% last year, close to its lowest level in 30 years, before rising *slightly[^16]* to 2.5% this July. This is a long way below the *double-digit[^17]* rates which many countries *experienced[^18]* in the 1970s and early 1980s.
[^13]:If someone **boasts** [boʊst] about something that they have done or that they own, they talk about it very proudly, in a way that other people may find irritating or offensive. 吹嘘
[^14]:You use **lately** [leɪtli] to describe events in the recent past, or situations that started a short time ago. 近期的
[^15]:You use **mere** [mɪəʳ] to emphasize how small a particular amount or number is. 仅仅
[^16]:**Slightly** [slaɪtli] means to some degree but not to a very large degree. 轻微地
[^17]:A **double-digit** number is between 10 and 99. 两位数
[^18]:If you **experience** [ɪkspɪəriəns] a particular situation, you are in that situation or it happens to you. 经历

## Para. 3

It is also less than most *forecasters[^19]* had *predicted[^20]*. In late 1994 the panel[^21] of economists which *The Economist* polls each month said that America's inflation rate would average 3.5% in 1995. In fact, it feel to 2.6% in August, and is expected to average only about 3% for the year as a whole. In Britain and Japan inflation is running half a percentage point below the rate predicted at the end of last year. This is no *flash in the pan[^22]*; over the past *couple of years[^23]*, inflation has been *consistently[^24]* lower than expected in Britain and America.
[^19]:A **forecaster** [fɔːʳkɑːstəʳ] is someone who uses detailed knowledge about a particular activity in order to work out what they think will happen in that activity in the future. 预测者
[^20]:If you **predict** [prɪdɪkt] an event, you say that it will happen. 预言
[^21]:A **panel** [pænəl] is a small group of people who are chosen to do something, for example to discuss something in public or to make a decision. 小组
[^22]:**Flash in the pan**: a project, person, etc, that enjoys only short-lived success, notoriety, etc 昙花一现
[^23]:**Couple of years**: 许多年，几年
[^24]:Someone who is **consistent** [kənsɪstənt] always behaves in the same way, has the same attitudes towards people or things, or achieves the same level of success in something. 一直

## Para. 4

Economists have been *particularly[^25]* surprised by *favourable[^26]* inflation figures in Britain and the United States, since conventional[^27] measures suggest that both economies, and especially America's, have little productive *slack[^28]*. America's *capacity[^29]* *utilisation[^30]*, for example, hit historically high levels earlier this year, and its jobless rate (5.6% in August) has fallen below most *estimates[^31]* of the natural rate of unemployment--the rate below which inflation has taken off in the past.
[^25]:**Particularly** [pəʳtɪkjʊləʳli] means more than usual or more than other things. 特别
[^26]:**Favorable** conditions make something more likely to succeed or seem more attractive. 有利的
[^27]:A **conventional** [kənvenʃənəl] method or product is one that is usually used or that has been in use for a long time. 传统的
[^28]:Something that is **slack** [slæk] is loose and not firmly stretched or tightly in position. 闲置
[^29]:see 30. The **capacity** [kəpæsɪti] of something such as a factory, industry, or region is the quantity of things that it can produce or deliver with the equipment or resources that are available. 产能
[^30]:If you **utilize** [juːtɪlaɪz] something, you use it. 利用（率），短语：产能利用率
[^31]:An **estimate** [estɪmeɪt] is an approximate calculation of a quantity or value. 估值

## Para. 5

Why has inflation proved so *mild[^32]*? The most *thrilling[^33]* explanation is, unfortunately, a little *defective[^34]*. Some economists argue that powerful structural changes in the world have *up-ended[^35]* the old economic models that were based upon the historical link between growth and inflation.
[^32]:**Mild** [maɪld] is used to describe something such as a feeling, attitude, or illness that is not very strong or severe. 温和的
[^33]:Something that is **thrilling** [θrɪlɪŋ] is very exciting and enjoyable. 激动人心的
[^34]:If something is **defective** [dɪfektɪv], there is something wrong with it and it does not work properly. 有缺陷的
[^35]:[ʌp end] 使颠倒、倒立