# 1997-01

## Para. 1

It was 3:45 in the morning when the vote was finally taken. After six months of arguing and final 16 hours of hot *parliamentary[^1]* *debates[^2]*, Australia's Northern *Territory[^3]* became the first legal *authority[^4]* in the world to allow doctors to *take the lives[^5]* of *incurably[^6]* ill patients who wish to die. The *measure[^7]* passed by the *convincing[^8]* vote of 15 to 10. Almost immediately word *flashed[^9]* on the Internet and was *picked up[^10]*, half a world away, by John Hofsess, executive director of the Right to Die Society of Canada. He sent it on *via[^11]* the group's on-line service, Death NET. Says Hofsess: "We posted *bulletins[^12]* all day long, because of course this isn't just something that happened in Australia. It's world history."

[^1]: **Parliamentary** [pɑːʳləmentəri] is used to describe things that are connected with a parliament or with Members of Parliament. 议会
[^2]: A **debate** [dɪbeɪt] is a discussion about a subject on which people have different views. 辩论
[^3]: **Territory** [terətri/terətɔːri] is land which is controlled by a particular country or ruler. 领土
[^4]: The **authorities** [ɔːθɒrɪti] are the people who have the power to make decisions and to make sure that laws are obeyed. 权威、权力
[^5]: **take life** is kill. 夺走生命
[^6]: If someone has an **incurable** [ɪnkjʊərəbəl] disease, they cannot be cured of it. 不可救药的
[^7]: When someone, usually a government or other authority, takes **measures** [meʒəʳ] to do something, they carry out particular actions in order to achieve a particular result. 措施
[^8]: If you describe someone or something as **convincing** [kənvɪnsɪŋ], you mean that they make you believe that a particular thing is true, correct, or genuine. 令人信服的
[^9]: If you **flash** [flæʃ] news or information to a place, you send it there quickly by computer, satellite, or other system. 闪现出来
[^10]: If someone **picks up** [pɪk ʌp] a point or topic that has already been mentioned, or if they pick up on it, they refer to it or develop it. 参考或发展
[^11]: If you do something **via** [vaɪə] a particular means or person, you do it by making use of that means or person. 通过（介词）
[^12]: A **bulletin** [bʊlɪtɪn] is a short official announcement made publicly to inform people about an important matter. （重要的）公告<br/>---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



## Para. 2

This *full import[^13]* may take a while to *sink in[^14]*. The NT Rights of the *Terminally[^15]* Ill law has left physicians and citizens alike trying to deal with its *moral[^16]* and practical *implications[^17]*. Some have *breathed sighs of relief[^18]*, others, including *churches[^19]*, right-to-life groups and the Australian Medical Association, *bitterly[^20]* attacked the *bill[^21]* and the *haste[^22]* of its *passage[^23]*. But the *tide[^24]* is unlikely to turn back. In Australia--where an *aging population[^25]*, *life-extending[^26]* technology and changing community attitudes have all played their part--other states are going to consider making a similar law to deal with *euthanasia[^27]*. In the US and Canada, where the right-to-die *movement[^28]* is *gathering[^29]* strength, *observers[^30]* are waiting for the *dominoes[^31]* to start falling.

[^13]: [fʊl ɪmpɔːʳt] 完全进入（全面采用）
[^14]: When a statement or fact **sinks in** [sɪŋk ɪn], you finally understand or realize it fully. 下沉
[^15]: **Terminally** [tɜːʳmɪnəlɪː] in a way that is predicted to lead to death; incurably. 最终
[^16]: **Moral** [mɒrəl] means relating to beliefs about what is right or wrong. 道德的
[^17]: The **implication** [ɪmplɪkeɪʃən] of a statement, event, or situation is what it implies or suggests is the case. 意义
[^18]: If you feel a sense of **relief** [rɪliːf], you feel happy because something unpleasant has not happened or is no longer happening. 缓解，放松（了一口气）
[^19]: A **church** [tʃɜːʳtʃ] is a building in which Christians worship. 教堂
[^20]: You use **bitterly** [bɪtəʳli] when you are describing an attitude which involves strong, unpleasant emotions such as anger or dislike. 非常地，猛烈地
[^21]: In government, a **bill** [bɪl] is a formal statement of a proposed new law that is discussed and then voted on. 法案
[^22]: **Haste** [heɪst] is the quality of doing something quickly, sometimes too quickly so that you are careless and make mistakes. 匆忙、快
[^23]: The **passage** [pæsɪdʒ] of a bill or act is the official acceptance of it by a parliament or legislature. （法案）通过
[^24]: People sometimes refer to events or forces that are difficult or impossible to control as the **tide** [taɪd] of history, for example. 潮流
[^25]: **aging population** [eɪdʒɪŋ pɒpjʊleɪʃən] 人口老龄化
[^26]: **life-extending** [laɪf ɪkstendɪŋ] 延长寿命↩
[^27]: **Euthanasia** [juːθəneɪziə] is the practice of killing someone who is very ill and will never get better in order to end their suffering, usually done at their request or with their consent. 安乐死
[^28]: A **movement** [muːvmənt] is a group of people who share the same beliefs, ideas, or aims. 运动（负责运动的组织）
[^29]: If you **gather** [gæðəʳ] things, you collect them together so that you can use them. 集聚
[^30]: You can refer to someone who sees or notices something as an **observer** [əbzɜːʳvəʳ]. 观察者
[^31]: Any of several games in which matching halves of **dominoes** [dɒmɪˌnəʊz] are laid together.多米诺骨牌<br/>---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Para. 3

Under the new Northen Territory law, an adult patient can request death--probably by a deadly *injection[^32]* or *pill[^33]*--to put an end to *suffering[^34]*. The patient must be *diagnosed[^35]* as terminally ill by two doctors. After a "*cooling off[^36]*" period of seven days, the patient can sign a *certificate[^37]* of request. After 48 hours the wish for death can be *met[^38]*. For Lloyd Nickson, a 54-year-old Darwin *resident[^39]* suffering from lung cancer, the NT Rights of Terminally Ill law means he can get on with living without the *haunting[^40]* fear of his suffering: a terrifying death from his breathing condition. "I'm not afraid of dying from a spiritual point of view, but what I was afraid of was how I'd go, because I've watched people die in the hospital fighting for oxygen and *clawing[^41]* at their masks," he says.

[^32]: If you have an **injection** [ɪndʒekʃən], a doctor or nurse puts a medicine into your body using a device with a needle called a syringe. 注射
[^33]: **Pills** [pɪls] are small solid round masses of medicine or vitamins that you swallow without chewing. 药片
[^34]: **Suffering** [sʌfərɪŋ] is serious pain which someone feels in their body or their mind. 痛苦
[^35]: If someone or something is **diagnosed** [daɪəgnoʊz] as having a particular illness or problem, their illness or problem is identified. If an illness or problem is diagnosed, it is identified. 确诊
[^36]: If someone or something **cools off** [kuːlɪŋ ɒf], or if you cool them off, they become cooler after having been hot. 冷静
[^37]: A **certificate** [səʳtɪfɪkət] is an official document stating that particular facts are true. 证明
[^38]: [met] 满足
[^39]: The **residents** [rezɪdənt] of a house or area are the people who live there. 居民
[^40]: **Haunting** [hɔːntɪŋ] sounds, images, or words remain in your thoughts because they are very beautiful or sad. 困扰、担心
[^41]: To **claw** [klɔː] at something means to try very hard to get hold of it. 抓住
