# 1999-02

## Para. 1

In the first year *or so[^1]* of Web business, most of the action has *revolved[^2]* around efforts to *tap[^3]* the consumer market. More recently, as the Web *proved[^4]* to be more than a fashion, companies have started to buy and sell products and services with one another. Such business-to-business sales make sense because business people *typically[^5]* know what product they're looking for.
[^1]:You use **or so** when you are giving an approximate amount. 大概，左右
[^2]:If you say that one thing **revolves** [rɪvɒlv] **around** another thing, you mean that the second thing is the main feature or focus of the first thing. 围绕……**展开**
[^3]:If you **tap** [tæp] something, you hit it with a quick light blow or a series of quick light blows. 轻敲，引申为开拓
[^4]:If something **proves** [pruːv] to be true or to have a particular quality, it becomes clear after a period of time that it is true or has that quality. 证明
[^5]:You use **typically** [tɪpɪkli] to say that something usually happens in the way that you are describing. 通常地

## Para. 2

*Nonetheless[^6]*, many companies still *hesitate[^7]* to use the Web because of doubts about its *reliability[^8]*. "Business need to feel they can trust the *pathway[^9]* between them and the *supplier[^10]*," says senior[^11] analyst[^12] Blane Erwin of Forrester Research. Some companies are limiting the risk by conducting[^13] online transactions[^14] only with established[^15] business partners who are given access to the company's private intranet[^16].
[^6]:**Nonetheless** [nʌnðəles] means the same as nevertheless. -- You use nevertheless when saying something that contrasts with what has just been said. 尽管如此
[^7]:If you **hesitate** [hezɪteɪt], you do not speak or act for a short time, usually because you are uncertain, embarrassed, or worried about what you are going to say or do. 犹豫
[^8]:People or things that are **reliable** [rɪlaɪəbəl] can be trusted to work well or to behave in the way that you want them to. 可靠的（名词：可靠性）
[^9]:A **pathway** [pɑːθweɪ] is a path which you can walk along or a route which you can take. 途径
[^10]:A **supplier** [səplaɪəʳ] is a person, company, or organization that sells or supplies something such as goods or equipment to customers. 供应商
[^11]:The **senior** [siːnjəʳ] people in an organization or profession have the highest and most important jobs. 高级的
[^12]:An **analyst** [ænəlɪst] is a person whose job is to analyse a subject and give opinions about it. 分析师
[^13]:When you **conduct** [kəndʌkt] an activity or task, you organize it and carry it out. 进行（某事）
[^14]:A **transaction** [trænzækʃən] is a piece of business, for example an act of buying or selling something. 交易
[^15]:If you use **established** [ɪstæblɪʃt] to describe something such as an organization, you mean that it is officially recognized or generally approved of because it has existed for a long time. 已经建立（某种关系）的
[^16]:An **intranet** [ɪntrənet] is a network of computers, similar to the internet, within a particular company or organization. 内部网

## Para. 3

Another major[^17] shift[^18] in the model for Internet commerce[^19] concerns[^20] the technology available for marketing. Until recently, Internet marketing activities have focused on strategies[^21] to "pull" customers into sites. In the past year, however, software companies have developed tools that allow companies to "push" informatioin directly out to consumers[^22], transmitting marketing messages directly to targeted customers. Most notably, the Pointcast Network uses a *screen saver[^23]* to deliver a continually updates stream of news and advertisements to subscribers' computer monitors. Subscribers can customize the information they want to recieve and *proceed[^24]* directly to a company's Web site. Companies such as Virtual Vineyards are already starting to use similar[^25] technologies to push messages to customers about special sales, product offerings, or other events. But push technology has earned the *contempt[^26]* of many Web users. Online culture thinks highly of the *notion[^27]* that the information flowing onto the screen comes there by specific request. Once commercial *promotion[^28]* begins to fill the screen uninvited, the *distinction[^29]* between the Web and television fades[^30]. That's a prospect[^31] that horrifies[^32] Net purists.
[^17]:You use **major** [meɪdʒəʳ] when you want to describe something that is more important, serious, or significant than other things in a group or situation. 重要的
[^18]:If someone's opinion, a situation, or a policy **shifts** [ʃɪft] or is shifted, it changes slightly. 转变
[^19]:**Commerce** [kɒmɜːʳs] is the activities and procedures involved in buying and selling things. 商务
[^20]:You can refer to a company or business as a **concern** [kənsɜːʳn], usually when you are describing what type of company or business it is. （商业）模式
[^21]:A **strategy** [strætədʒi] is a general plan or set of plans intended to achieve something, especially over a long period. 策略
[^22]:A **consumer** [kənsjuːməʳ] is a person who buys things or uses services. 消费者
[^23]:a program that displays a constantly shifting pattern on a display screen, used to prevent damage to the screen through continuous display of the same image. 屏幕保护
[^24]:If you **proceed** [prəsiːd] in a particular direction, you go in that direction. 进入
[^25]:If one thing is **similar** [sɪmɪləʳ] to another, or if two things are similar, they have features that are the same. 相似
[^26]:If you have **contempt** [kəntempt] for someone or something, you have no respect for them or think that they are unimportant. 蔑视
[^27]:A **notion** [noʊʃən] is an idea or belief about something. 观念
[^28]:A **promotion** [prəmoʊʃən] is an attempt to make a product or event popular or successful, especially by advertising. （商业）宣传
[^29]:A **distinction** [dɪstɪŋkʃən] between similar things is a difference. 区别、不同
[^30]:When something that you are looking at **fades** [feɪd], it slowly becomes less bright or clear until it disappears. 消失、褪色
[^31]:If there is some **prospect** [prɒspekt] of something happening, there is a possibility that it will happen. 前景
[^32]:If someone is **horrified** [hɒrɪfaɪ], they feel shocked or disgusted, usually because of something that they have seen or heard. 恐惧

## Para. 4

But it is hardly *inevitable[^33]* that companies on the Web will need to *resort[^34]* to push strategies to make money. The examples of Virtual Vineyards, Amazon.com, and other *pioneers[^35]* show that a Web site selling the right kind of products with the right mix of *interactivity[^36]*, hospitally, and security will attract online customers. And the cost of computing power continues to *free fall[^37]*, which is a good sign for any enterprise setting up shop in *silicon[^38]*. People looking back 5 or 10 years from now may well wonder why so few companies took the online *plunge[^39]*.
[^33]:If something is **inevitable** [ɪnevɪtəbəl], it is certain to happen and cannot be prevented or avoided. 不可避免的
[^34]:If you **resort** [rɪzɔːʳt] to a course of action that you do not really approve of, you adopt it because you cannot see any other way of achieving what you want. 只能做（某事）
[^35]:Someone who is referred to as a **pioneer** [paɪənɪəʳ] in a particular area of activity is one of the first people to be involved in it and develop it. 先驱
[^36]:An **interactive** [ɪntəræktɪv] computer program or television system is one which allows direct communication between the user and the machine. 交互的
[^37]:If the value or price of something goes into **free fall**, it starts to fall uncontrollably. 直线下降
[^38]:**Silicon** [sɪlɪkən] is an element that is found in sand and in minerals such as quartz and granite. Silicon is used to make parts of computers and other electronic equipment. 硅、硅片（指代电脑）
[^39]:If something or someone **plunges** [plʌndʒ] in a particular direction, especially into water, they fall, rush, or throw themselves in that direction. 区域、业务
