# Para. 1

If you *intend[^1]* using humor in your talk to make people smile, you must know how to identify shared experiences and problems. Your humor must be relevant to the audience and should help to show them that you are one of them or that you understand their situation and are in *sympathy[^2]* with their point of view. Depending on whom you are *addressing[^3]*, the problems will be different. If you are talking to a group of managers, you may refer to the *disorganized[^4]* methods of their secretaries; alternatively if you are addressing secretaries, you may want to comment on their disorganized bosses.
[^1]:
[^2]:
[^3]:
[^4]:


# Para. 2

Here is an example, which I heard at a nurses' *convention[^5]*, of a story which works well because the audience all shared the same view of doctors. A man arrives in heaven and is being shown around by St. Peter. He sees wonderful *accommodations[^6]*, beautiful gardens, sunny weather, and so on. Everyone is very peaceful, polite and friendly until, waiting in a line for lunch, the new arrival is suddenly pushed aside by a man in a white coat, who rushes to the head of the line, *grabs[^7]* his food and *stomps[^8]* over to a table by himself. "Who is that?" the new arrival asked St. Peter. "Oh, that's God," came the reply, "but sometimes he thinks he's a doctor."
[^5]:
[^6]:
[^7]:

# Para. 3

If you are part of the group which you are addressing, you will be in a position to know the experiences and problems which are common to all of you and it'll be appropriate for you to make a *passing remark[^8]* about the *inedible[^9]* *canteen[^10]* food or the chairman's *notorious[^11]* bad taste in ties. With other audiences you mustn't attempt to cut in with humor as they will *resent[^12]* an outsider making *disparaging[^13]* remarks about their canteen or their chairman. You will be on safer ground if you stick to *scapegoats[^14]* like the Post Office or the telephone system.
[^8]:
[^9]:
[^10]:
[^11]:
[^12]:
[^13]:
[^14]:

# Para. 4

If you feel *awkward[^15]* being humorous, you must practice so that it becomes more natural. Include a few *casual[^16]* and apparently *off-the-cuff[^17]* remarks which you can deliver in a relaxed and *unforced[^17]* *manner[^18]*. Often it's the delivery which causes the audience to smile, so speak slowly and remember that a raised eyebrow or an unbelieving look may help to show that you are making a *light-hearted[^19]* remark.
[^15]:
[^16]:
[^17]:
[^18]:
[^19]:

# Para. 5

Look for the humor. It often comes from the *unexpected[^20]*. A *twist[^21]* on a familiar quote "If at first you don't succeed, give up" or play on words or on a situation. Search for *exaggeration[^22]* and understatements. Look at your talk and pick out a few words or sentences which you can turn about and *inject[^23]* with humor.
[^20]:
[^21]:
[^22]:
[^23]: