# Para. 1

To paraphase 18<sup>th</sup>-century statesman Edmund Burke, "all that is needed for the triumph of a misguided cause is that good people do nothing." One such cause now seeks to end biomedical research because of the theory that animals have rights advocates, whose arguments are confusing the public and thereby threatening advances in health knowledge and care. Leaders of the animal rights movement target biomedical research because it depends on public funding, and few people understand the process of heath care research. Hearing allegations of cruelty to animals in research settings, many are perplexed that anyone would deliberately harm an animal.

# Para. 2

For example, a grandmotherly woman staffing an animal rights booth at a recent street fair was distributing a brochure that encouraged readers not to use anything that comes from or is tested in animals—nomeat, no fur, no medicines. Asked if she opposed immunizations, she wanted to know if vaccines come from animal research. When assured that they do, she replied, "Then I would have to say yes." Asked what will happen when epidemics return, she said, "Don't worry, scientists will find some way of using computers." Such well-meaning people just don't understand.

# Para. 3

Scientists must communicate their mesage to the public in a compassionate, understandable way—in human terms, not in the language of molecular biology. We need to make clear the connectin between animal research and a grandmother's hip replacement, a father's bypass operation. a baby's vaccinations, and even a pet's shots. To those who are unaware that animal research was needed to produce these treatments, as well as new treatments and vaccines, animal research seems wasteful at best and cruel at worst.

# Para. 4

Much can be done. Scientists could "adopt" middle school classes and present their own research. They should be quick to respond to letters to the editor, elst animal rights misinformation go unchallenged and acquire a deceptive appearance of truth. Research institutions could be opened to tours, to show that laboratory animals receive humane care. Finally, because the ultimate stake holders are patients, the health research community should actively recruit to its cause not only well-known personalities such as Stephen Coope, who has made courages statements about the value of animal research, but all who recieve medical treatment. If good people do nothing, there is a real possibility that an unindormed citizenry will extinguish the precious embers of medical progress.